All right.
So we had a very long talk in the previous lecture about making a push to request to use debugging.
But I had to I had to go in a very detailed explanation because many students may be new to it.
All right.
So we saw how the data will be sent from the client to server in a request body and how you could access
that in your controller.
So once you are able to access that, the next thing you can do is apply some validation because we
want to make sure we get the name, email and password and password should be at least six characters
long in this case.
So in those cases, we want to apply some tech, make sure we got the data we need.
If we don't get it, then we need to send some error messages, right?
So when we send the JSON, miss it, we can grab this in the frontend and display that to the user.
Right?
Then if everything is well, then we find the user from the database based on this email.
Because if the user has already been created based on the email, then we can recreate another user
with the same email rights.
The email has to be unique, so that's why we're using the user model and using this find one function.
Now Mongoose gives us a lot of these functionalities.
The MongoDB gives us a lot of these functionalities which we can use to easily query the database in
a find something out, update, delete things like that.
So you can see here we have tried to find the user by the email.
So if we find that value will be here, right?
So if we have that value, then we need to send some kind of error message saying that email is taken.
Right?
Otherwise, we can continue further to send the user in the database.
So in that case, you'd never want to save the plane password.
That's you shouldn't be doing that.
We always need to has the password for security reasons.
So even in case your application is compromised, the we will now go to your data.
They will still not be able to see the user's password plainly.
Right.
So passing is important.
So for that we have hashed the password using the decrypt function I showed you.
This function is in the helper file.
Has passwords to this function responsible for assessing the password using bitcoins.
All right, so we has the password and then we go ahead and create a new user.
And creating a new user is pretty easy.
You can t use the new cured and use this user model, new user, and then you give all the data necessary
to create a user.
In that case, we give the name, email and password.
Now you can see I didn't write like this because if the name and value is simple, you don't have to
write in this clearly like that.
So we send the name email password, which will be the last one.
That one will be used and we use dot save altogether.
So in one line you'll be able to create a new user and saving that element.
Now once you send the user, you want to send the response to the back to the application in the front
end so that once the user logs in, maybe we want to save this user information in the global context,
maybe saving the local stories, right?
So that when they reload the piece, we still know that we have to use it.
All right.
So for things like that, which we will be exploring more later, we need to send the token as well.
So we save the user, we save the user and we create the token.
We use the data, we use the sign function to generate the same token.
Now, when you generate stupid couple of arguments you use, the first one you can see is the ID.
In our case, we have used the user I.D. You can see when we create a new user, the ID will be automatically
generated by MongoDB.
Every thing is written in the MongoDB.
You will get this unique I.D., right?
So that I.D. we take and we use that to create the token.
Now, the benefit of this one is later.
When you decode the token right way to decode, you will immediately be able to get this I.D..
Now, when you get the I.D., then you know how to find that user from the database.
Now you can query the database based on this user's I.D. and find more information about the user,
everything that is said in the database.
All right.
So this I.D. will be really useful later.
So when you create the same token first argument, we give you some data.
In our case, we just using the user.
82nd argument is the secret.
Now, this secret should be known to you back end only the you shouldn't expose this to anyone.
Anyone should know this.
Otherwise they might use the secret to decode your data with token to any tokens that has been issued
by your server that can be compromised if someone else knows the secret.
So this is really important.
You keep it safe and this is some very long encrypted words so that it's very hard to guess right to
some complicated loads in numbers you use to create a secret which is here is just some random, you
know, random letters and numbers to is that so it's hard to guess.
I guess the first argument is the user ID anything, any data is.
Second argument is the secret to you have to guess secret.
And third argument is how long do you want this talking to be valid?
Right to decent work.
Don't they have the validity of the time?
You can issue for one hour.
One minute.
You know, seven days, seven weeks, seven months, seven years.
You know, there's no limit.
So in our case, we have issued the token and it will expire in seven days.
So I'm just saying this token will no longer be valid.
All right.
So that's how we generate a token.
Well.
And then finally, it's time to send the this all this information to the client.
Once the signup has been successful.
So in that case, we send the user and the token you can see we are sending responses and sending the
token and we sending the user.
Now, instead of saving the whole, you are sending the whole user, which we got here.
I have done some destruction and got the rest of the properties only like this.
The reason I'm doing this is because if I didn't do this, then I will be sending all the information
about the user, including behest password.
Now that's not something you want to send to the client after the log in because that that information
will be saved in the local stories, in the application context, which can be misused.
Right.
So we don't need to expose that to anyone.
So that's why we use this risk operator, just like a spirit operator.
We use the wrist operator to get the password and the rest of the properties from the user doc.
All right.
So this user that we get after serving in the database that contains password, name, email, all these
are the properties we don't want.
We want all these are properties except password.
So we get the password and everything else we call the rest.
I guess it is called wrist operator.
You can even google it.
It's a modern JavaScript if you want to learn more about it.
So just like the mint, it gets the rest of the values from the object.
Right.
And that object, in our case, a user dump.
And then we just send the rest, excluding the password.
All right.
And then we just have to get if there's an error, we console.log so that we can figure out what is
wrong.
Right.
So very lengthy explanation, but basically it's pretty straightforward.
We do some that it isn't.
We take if user exist.
If it doesn't, we has the password created user save in the database, generate the token and send
the token and user to the client.
Now we can try this time.
It's a rule.
And you may also want to check out how the user is saved in the database so you can console log user
saved in sign the user.
So you can console.log later.
We can comment this decide.
Okay, let's give it a try.
I guess.
Orion run the mail dot com and just password.
All right, let's try registering the user.
So here, let's hit submit.
All right, so we got the response.
So we console.log the response in our client you can to console.log the response and we got the response
and our response has this property called data.
All right, so next time we can destructor data directly, you always get this data property when you
are using X years to make a request and then you can see the data content.
By the way, this request, contents, all this other information as well.
But the one we are interested is the status.
If you click on the data, you see we got the token to this move token and we got the user which has
been just created, saved in the database.
He and he gives an email named role of did it add and the unique ID that is generated by MongoDB.
MongoDB.
All right so this beautiful we got the user it has been saved in the database.
Awesome.
And you see this post request and the the endpoint and the status quo 200, which means success in how
long it takes 364 milliseconds.
Right.
So all this information you see, because we applied that middleware called Modern Mode.
So that's the reason you getting all this information, which is very helpful.
All right.
So you can see when the user has been saved in the database.
We control logged and we saw that information.
Now, this this user has the password, which is the best version.
So when we send.
It as a response.
We didn't include that password because you can see we don't have the password because we use the rest
operator lists.
All right, beautiful.
Now, the next thing we want to do is this government is out to control.
Now when we successfully log in the user race to the user, we want to do certain things effectively.
We want to reduce the user to another base, maybe sign in base, maybe we want to save this information
somewhere in the global context, right?
So that we can use it later when the user reloads the base or come back to this application that time
so we can retrieve the user's information.
Right?
So for doing things like that, we can use this data and save in the global stories context.
We can use context to create a global stories or we can save it in the local stories here.
Application Local Shows.
I will be showing you a lot of stories.
You will be saving values by the key.
By the key and some values.
All right.
So we're going to explore all of that and we can so some touch notifications as well here.
Now, before we do all that, let's quickly have a look into the MongoDB as well.
So I'm logged into MongoDB.
This is the database, the project name we used for our database.
And here we should be able to browse collection.
And there you should see this.
User data has been just created.
So we have the posts and users.
So first we don't have anything at the moment.
Post 11 is a stone city.
Models.
Okay.
So we don't have even the post model.
Not sure it's there.
You know, maybe it was created by default.
I guess here in the users.
Next questions.
We're both colleagues and so users we should see that newly created user.
Here you can see why that email look beautiful.
All right.
Now let's continue here in the client.
Let's see how we're going to handle the response here.